<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [mui-country-code-selector](./mui-country-code-selector.md)

## mui-country-code-selector package

## Functions

<table><thead><tr><th>

Function


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[CountryCodeSelector({ autoHighlight, autoSelect, filterOptions, getOptionLabel, handleHomeEndKeys, label, renderOption, renderInput, shrink, variant, renderCountRef, ...rest })](./mui-country-code-selector.countrycodeselector.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Autocomplete component to select the country code of a phone number from a list of countries. Based on the MUI Autocomplete component ( [https://mui.com/material-ui/react-autocomplete](https://mui.com/material-ui/react-autocomplete)<!-- -->). Can be used in conjunction with a text input field and common state between the subcomponents to create a complete phone number input component.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[CountryCodeSelectorCombined({ id, name, value, onChange, inputRef, countryCodeLabel, phoneNumberLabel, errorMessageDelay, errorMessageDisplay, onError, defaultValue, layout, formGroupProps, gridContainerProps, gridItemProps, gridSelectorProps, gridInputProps, gridErrorProps, grid2ContainerProps, grid2ItemProps, grid2SelectorProps, grid2InputProps, grid2ErrorProps, stackProps, selectorSize, inputSize, errorSize, filterOptions, shrink, variant, selectorProps, inputProps, errorProps, selectorRenderCountRef, inputRenderCountRef, })](./mui-country-code-selector.countrycodeselectorcombined.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** A complete phone number input React component with a country code selector autocomplete field. Based on MUI's `Autocomplete` ( [https://mui.com/material-ui/react-autocomplete/](https://mui.com/material-ui/react-autocomplete/)<!-- -->) and `TextField` ( [https://mui.com/material-ui/react-text-field/](https://mui.com/material-ui/react-text-field/)<!-- -->) components. These subcomponents are combined using a common state that is implemented differently in specific variants of the component.

This component variant uses the provided Zustand store as the common state between the subcomponents. See the documentation for `CCSelectorState` and `useCountryCodeStore` for more information about the store.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[CountryCodeSelectorCombinedReact({ id, name, value, onChange, countryCodeLabel, phoneNumberLabel, errorMessageDelay, errorMessageDisplay, onError, inputRef, defaultValue, layout, formGroupProps, gridContainerProps, gridItemProps, gridSelectorProps, gridInputProps, gridErrorProps, grid2ContainerProps, grid2ItemProps, grid2SelectorProps, grid2InputProps, grid2ErrorProps, stackProps, selectorSize, inputSize, errorSize, filterOptions, shrink, variant, selectorProps, inputProps, errorProps, selectorRenderCountRef, inputRenderCountRef, })](./mui-country-code-selector.countrycodeselectorcombinedreact.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** A complete phone number input React component with a country code selector autocomplete field. Based on MUI's `Autocomplete` ( [https://mui.com/material-ui/react-autocomplete/](https://mui.com/material-ui/react-autocomplete/)<!-- -->) and `TextField` ( [https://mui.com/material-ui/react-text-field/](https://mui.com/material-ui/react-text-field/)<!-- -->) components. These subcomponents are combined using a common state that is implemented differently in specific variants of the component.

This component variant uses React's state management utilities to create the common state between the subcomponents.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[CountryCodeStoreProvider({ children })](./mui-country-code-selector.countrycodestoreprovider.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** A provider component for the `CountryCodeStoreContext`<!-- -->. Every country code selector must have its own state. When creating a custom component that uses Zustand store for the state, the components of the phone number input must be surrounded in `CountryCodeStoreProvider` tags. The combined Zustand component hides this by using a higher order component.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[createDefaultFilterOptions()](./mui-country-code-selector.createdefaultfilteroptions.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Creates a default filter options function for the `CountryCodeSelector`<!-- -->'s `Autocomplete` component. See [https://mui.com/material-ui/api/autocomplete/\#autocomplete-prop-filterOptions](https://mui.com/material-ui/api/autocomplete/#autocomplete-prop-filterOptions) and [https://mui.com/material-ui/react-autocomplete/\#custom-filter](https://mui.com/material-ui/react-autocomplete/#custom-filter) for more information about custom filtering.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[createDefaultRenderInput(label, shrink, variant)](./mui-country-code-selector.createdefaultrenderinput.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Returns a default function for rendering the input component of the `CountryCodeSelector`<!-- -->'s `Autocomplete` component. See [https://mui.com/material-ui/api/autocomplete/\#autocomplete-prop-renderInput](https://mui.com/material-ui/api/autocomplete/#autocomplete-prop-renderInput) for more information about the `renderInput` prop.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[defaultGetOptionLabel(option)](./mui-country-code-selector.defaultgetoptionlabel.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** A default function for getting the option label string in the `CountryCodeSelector`<!-- -->'s `Autocomplete` component. See [https://mui.com/material-ui/api/autocomplete/\#autocomplete-prop-getOptionLabel](https://mui.com/material-ui/api/autocomplete/#autocomplete-prop-getOptionLabel) for more information about the `getOptionLabel` prop.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[defaultRenderOption(props, option)](./mui-country-code-selector.defaultrenderoption.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Default function for rendering the options in the `CountryCodeSelector`<!-- -->'s `Autocomplete` component. See [https://mui.com/material-ui/api/autocomplete/\#autocomplete-prop-renderOption](https://mui.com/material-ui/api/autocomplete/#autocomplete-prop-renderOption) for more information about the `renderOption` prop.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[Grid2Wrapper({ grid2ItemProps, grid2SelectorProps, grid2InputProps, grid2ErrorProps, selectorSize, inputSize, errorSize, children, })](./mui-country-code-selector.grid2wrapper.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Wraps the combined country code selector's subcomponents into a MUI `Grid2` components.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[GridWrapper({ gridItemProps, gridSelectorProps, gridInputProps, gridErrorProps, selectorSize, inputSize, errorSize, children, })](./mui-country-code-selector.gridwrapper.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Wraps the combined country code selector's subcomponents into a MUI `Grid` and `Grid item`<!-- -->components.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[useCountryCodeStore()](./mui-country-code-selector.usecountrycodestore.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** A custom hook that returns a country code store. Store is fetched from a React context and therefore the component using this hook is expected to be surrounded by `CountryCodeStoreProvider` tags.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[Wrapper({ layout, formGroupProps, gridContainerProps, gridItemProps, gridSelectorProps, gridInputProps, gridErrorProps, grid2ContainerProps, grid2ItemProps, grid2SelectorProps, grid2InputProps, grid2ErrorProps, stackProps, selectorSize, inputSize, errorSize, children, })](./mui-country-code-selector.wrapper.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Wraps the combined country code selector's subcomponents into MUI's `Grid`<!-- -->, `Grid2` or `FormGroup` components according to the `layout` prop's value.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Interfaces

<table><thead><tr><th>

Interface


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[CCSelectorCombinedProps](./mui-country-code-selector.ccselectorcombinedprops.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Represents the props of the `CountryCodeSelectorCombined` components.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[CCSelectorProps](./mui-country-code-selector.ccselectorprops.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Represents the props of the `CountryCodeSelector` components.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[CCSelectorState](./mui-country-code-selector.ccselectorstate.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Represents a common state between the country code autocomplete component and the phone number input component, which together form a complete phone number input component.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[ComponentSize](./mui-country-code-selector.componentsize.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Represents a value for the combined component props that change the size of country code selector subcomponents in a MUI Grid (or Grid2).


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[CountryType](./mui-country-code-selector.countrytype.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Represents data for an individual country. Contains records for the name, the international calling code, and two letter ISO 3166 country code of the country.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[Grid2WrapperProps](./mui-country-code-selector.grid2wrapperprops.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Represents the props of the `Grid2Wrapper` component.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[GridWrapperProps](./mui-country-code-selector.gridwrapperprops.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Represents the props of the `GridWrapper` component.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[InputSelection](./mui-country-code-selector.inputselection.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Represents the text selection range within an input element (phone number input).


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[PossibleCountries](./mui-country-code-selector.possiblecountries.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Represents data about country codes that are possible based on the phone number input.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[WrapperProps](./mui-country-code-selector.wrapperprops.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Props for the `Wrapper` component.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Variables

<table><thead><tr><th>

Variable


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[countries](./mui-country-code-selector.countries.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** International calling code data for the countries of the world.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Type Aliases

<table><thead><tr><th>

Type Alias


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[Grid2ContainerProps](./mui-country-code-selector.grid2containerprops.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Represents the props that can be passed to a MUI Grid2 container component used for the layout of the subcomponents of combined country code selector component.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[Grid2ItemProps](./mui-country-code-selector.grid2itemprops.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Represents the props that can be passed to a MUI Grid2 item components used for the layout of the subcomponents of combined country code selector component.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[GridContainerProps](./mui-country-code-selector.gridcontainerprops.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Represents the props that can be passed to a MUI Grid container component used for the layout of the subcomponents of combined country code selector component.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[GridItemProps](./mui-country-code-selector.griditemprops.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Represents the props that can be passed to a MUI Grid item components used for the layout of the subcomponents of combined country code selector component.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[LayoutProp](./mui-country-code-selector.layoutprop.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Represents a value of the `CombinedCountryCodeSelector`<!-- -->'s prop that defines what kind of layout components its subcomponents are wrapped in, if any.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>
